KEYCLOAK-7010 Configure JAVA_OPTS onOpenShift (#759)
keycloak/keycloak-documentation: openshift/topics/advanced_concepts.adoc

====
. Log in to the `master` realm's administration console of the {project_name} server using the credentials created in the steps above. In the browser, navigate to *\http://sso-<project-name>.<hostname>/auth/admin*  for the {project_name} web server, or to *\https://secure-sso-<project-name>.<hostname>/auth/admin* for the encrypted {project_name} web server, and specify the user name and password used to create the administrator user.

=== Customizing the default behavior of the {project_name} image

> You can change the default behavior of the {project_name} image such as enabling TechPreview features or enabling debugging. This section describes how to make this change by using the JAVA_OPTS_APPEND variable.

Reviewer: *TechPreview* is never used across the documentation. This should be replaced with *technology preview* in full

.Prerequisites 

> This procedure assumes that the {project_openshift_product_name} image has been previously link:{project_doc_base_url}/red_hat_single_sign-on_for_openshift/index#Example-Deploying-SSO[deployed using one of the following templates:]

Reviewer: Please use full link instead of `project_doc_base_url` in this case similarly the case of other sections. This link is causing failures in tests.

```suggestion
This procedure assumes that the {project_openshift_product_name} image has been previously link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_single_sign-on_continuous_delivery/7/html-single/red_hat_single_sign-on_for_openshift/index#Example-Deploying-SSO[deployed using one of the following templates:]
```

Author: Thanks, @hmlnarik That link would need to be conditional on the document being in the CD version of documents.   However, we may get a ruling in the next few days to discontinue CD releases because almost no one uses them.  If that happens, I recommend we use the full path for 7.3:

https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.3/html-single/red_hat_single_sign-on_for_openshift/index#Example-Deploying-SSO

* *_{project_templates_version}-mysql_*
* *_{project_templates_version}-mysql-persistent_*
* *_{project_templates_version}-postgresql_*
* *_{project_templates_version}-postgresql-persistent_*
* *_{project_templates_version}-x509-mysql-persistent_*
* *_{project_templates_version}-x509-postgresql-persistent_*

.Procedure

You can use the OpenShift web console or the CLI to change the default behavior.

If you use the OpenShift web console, you add the JAVA_OPTS_APPEND variable to the sso deployment config. For example, to enable TechPreview features, you set the variable as follows:

[source,bash,subs=+attributes]
----
JAVA_OPTS_APPEND="-Dkeycloak.profile=preview"
----

> If you use the CLI, use the following commands to enable TechPreview features when the {project_name} pod was deployed using a template that is mentioned under Prerequisites.

Reviewer: same as above

. Scale down the {project_name} pod:

> 

Reviewer 2: @andymunro Would it be possible to add a `Note:` here yet? Maybe something along the lines:
`Note: The output of the following command illustrates the use case when some of the aforementioned MySQL templates is used to deploy the {project_openshift_product_name} image. In the case of using some of the PostgreSQL ones, the name of the deployment config of the PostgreSQL pod is ``sso-postgresql``.`

Just trying to prevent confusion, so `sso-mysql` name isn't expected when some PostgreSQL template was used for deployment.

Author: Thanks, @iankko.  That's important to make it very clear. I am adding something now.

+
[source,bash,subs=+attributes]
----
$ oc get dc -o name
deploymentconfig/sso

> deploymentconfig/sso73-mysql

Reviewer 2: @andymunro 

This should be changed back to the original  _"deploymentconfig/sso-mysql"_  form (see e.g.:

- https://github.com/jboss-container-images/redhat-sso-7-openshift-image/blob/sso73-dev/templates/sso73-mysql-persistent.json#L706
- https://github.com/jboss-container-images/redhat-sso-7-openshift-image/blob/sso73-dev/templates/sso73-mysql-persistent.json#L27)

What I wanted to say, when reviewing [previous version](https://issues.jboss.org/browse/KEYCLOAK-7010?focusedCommentId=13803054&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-13803054) is, that "sso-mysql" template doesn't exist (it's not a template, but rather deploymentconfig). Didn't mean, the row above to be changed to "sso73-mysql"

$ oc scale --replicas=0 dc sso
deploymentconfig "sso" scaled
----

> . Edit the deployment config to set the JAVA_OPTS_APPEND variable. For example, to enable TechPreview features, you set the variable as follows:

Reviewer: same as above

+
[source,bash,subs=+attributes]
----
oc env dc/sso -e "JAVA_OPTS_APPEND=-Dkeycloak.profile=preview"
----

. Scale up the {project_name} pod:

+
[source,bash,subs=+attributes]
----
$ oc scale --replicas=1 dc sso
deploymentconfig "sso" scaled
----

> . Test a TechPreview feature of your choice.

Reviewer: same as before

Author: Thanks, @hmlnarik.  I made those corrections
